genocide a combination of the Greek word
genos meaning race or tribe and the
Latin word side meaning to kill the term
was coined by Jewish polish lawyer
rapael Lin in
1944 near the end of the second world
war the extent of Nazi Germany's murder
of about 2/3 or more than 6 million Jews
in Europe horrified the world in
1951 Lins work led to the United Nations
establishing a legal instrument through
which to hold Nations and individuals
accountable in the future it's called
the convention on the prevention of the
crime of
genocide it defines it as acts committed
with intent to destroy in whole or in
part a national ethnical racial or
religious
group these acts include killing people
causing mental or physical harm creating
conditions that lead to a group's
physical destruction preventing births
or forcibly moving children and to be
clear any of the five acts mentioned
would be enough and would lead in light
of what is happening in Gaza and what is
increasingly happening also in other
occupied Palestinian territories to
primas of a genocidal campaign
that assessment echoed by other un
experts a very large number uh of
reporters of the UN experts uh we have
raised days ago the alarm about the risk
of genocide in Gaza some analysts agree
to my mind a genocide is already
happening when the Israeli government
ordered the
evacuation of Northern Gaza uh it was
committing genocide as of that moment
others urge caution saying the term
carries with it the need to meet the
highest legal threshold particularly in
the case of genocide it's an extremely
extremely
difficult crime to convict a state on
and that is the reason for that is you
have to prove
intent many believe recent comments from
several senior Israeli government
officials have made their objective
clear he's referring to a Biblical
passage that called on ancient
Israelites to wipe out its arch rival
nation of Amal to avenge a surprise
Ambush to kill man woman child infant
and animals and and and
and
what Israel has said what its leaders
have said from the top down from the
Prime Minister down is more the
eradication of Gaza using genocidal
language the officials are saying things
that establish
intent prominent human rights experts
entrusted with ringing genocidal alarm
Bells say the world must not look away
at what could well be won in the making
Mike leel
jaer make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer